
---
layout: post
title:  'Planning'
author: 'cristina.mousika@exceedra.com'
exerpt: >
  . 

---

  <h1 style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; color: #333333;"><span style="line-height: 1.42857;">Planning</span></h1>
<p><span style="line-height: 1.42857;">...</span></p>
<h3 style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; color: #333333;">Database</h3>
<h4 style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; color: #333333;">Technical Notes</h4>
<p style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; color: #333333;">There have been several changes made to the Planning screen in version 2.10, which include the following:</p>
<ol>
    <li style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; color: #333333;">The number of measures is no longer fixed</li>
    <li style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; color: #333333;">Measures are now grouped</li>
    <li style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; color: #333333;">Improved comments</li>
    <li style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; color: #333333;">Customers tab</li>
    <li style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; color: #333333;">The application supports formulas as measure values</li>
    <li style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; color: #333333;">The application disaggregates values from hierarchy nodes to planning level</li>
    <li style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; color: #333333;">GetPlanning and Save Planning XML</li>
</ol>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<h5><strong>Planning Measures</strong></h5>
<p>The number of custom measures that can be added to the planning screen is no longer fixed to 20 - these used to be hard-coded as columns in&nbsp;Fact_Forecast_Adjust_CustSkuScenDay, but have now been removed.</p>
<p>Custom measures are stored in&nbsp;Fact_Measure_Forecast_Adjust_CustSkuScenDay, which only allows measures that are not standard in&nbsp;Dim_Planning_Volume_Measures to be inserted.</p>
<p>As a result of these changes, planning screen Get and Save procedures have been changed, as well as&nbsp;Procast_SP_ETL_POSTPROCESS_ManageBase</p>
<h5 style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; color: #333333;"><span style="font-weight: 700;">Planning Measure Groups</span></h5>
<p>Measures can be arranged into groups defined in&nbsp;Dim_Planning_Volume_MeasureGroups</p>
<h5><strong>Comments</strong></h5>
<p>Saving and viewing comments&nbsp;has been improved. Users are now able to save multiple comments for each Cust Sku combination and these can be seen at higher levels of the hierarchy. In addition, comments can be saved even if the user does not change any measure volumes.</p>
<p>There are two underlying tables:&nbsp;Dim_Planning_Comment and Fact_Planning_Comment</p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 700;">Customer Tab</span></p>
<p>A customers tab has been added to allow the user to view the customer hierarchy for selected products, and customer versions of the Get and Save procedures have been created.</p>
<p>The reasoning behind having new procedure is that returning Cust Sku data that would be flexible enough to use for both hierarchy would have performed very poorly.</p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 700;">Measure Formulas</span></p>
<p>The application supports simple formulas, but if they contain other measure codes, for the time being those measures have to also be displayed for the formula to work. For example, if the user defines the formula for MEASURE_C as "= BASE_VOLUME + MARKETING", then both Base Volume and Marketing measure have to be selected for the formula to work</p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 700;">Measure Disaggregation</span></p>
<p>The application disaggregates&nbsp;values from hierarchy nodes to planning level and only sends planning level product/customer values back to the database. The procedure then only needs to disaggregate to day from the given time bucket. Please note that the save procedure still contains code to map to planning level customers/products, which can and will be removed down the line.</p>
<p><strong>GetPlanning and Save Planning XML</strong></p>
<p>The XML input and output of the Get and Save procedures has changed so that it is easier to read and so that it works with the new grid control used in the application.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<h4 style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; color: #333333;">Key Tables / SPs to Review</h4>
<ul>
    <li>Dim_Planning_Volume_MeasureGroups</li>
    <li>Dim_Planning_Volume_Measures</li>
    <li>Dim_Planning_Comment</li>
    <li>Fact_Planning_Comment</li>
    <li>vw_Fact_Planning_Comment</li>
    <li>Fact_Forecast_Adjust_CustSkuScenDay</li>
    <li>Fact_Measure_Forecast_Adjust_CustSkuScenDay</li>
    <li>Procast_SP_PLANNING_GetFilterMeasures</li>
    <li>Procast_SP_PLANNING_GetFilterProducts</li>
    <li>Procast_SP_PLANNING_GetFilterScenarios</li>
    <li>Procast_SP_PLANNING_GetFilterTimeRanges</li>
    <li>Procast_SP_PLANNING_GetPlanningData</li>
    <li>Procast_SP_PLANNING_GetPlanningData_Customers</li>
    <li>Procast_SP_PLANNING_SHARED_Helper_GetTimePeriodsAndCustSkuVolumes</li>
    <li>Procast_SP_PLANNING_SavePlanningData</li>
    <li>Procast_SP_PLANNING_SavePlanningData_Customers</li>
    <li>Procast_SP_PLANNING_SHARED_Helper_GetTimeParentForSave</li>
    <li>Procast_SP_PLANNING_SHARED_Helper_SaveComments</li>
    <li>Procast_SP_ETL_POSTPROCESS_ManageBase</li>
    <li>Procast_SP_SCEN_SaveScenario</li>
    <li>SYS_AsynchronousTaskHandler</li>
</ul>