<div id="pagecontent">
<p><strong>Schema</strong>          : BIML</p>
<p><strong>Object</strong>          : Dim_Package</p>
<p><strong>Author</strong>          : Brendan Roberts</p>
<p><strong>Created Date</strong>    : 2015</p>
<p><strong>Description</strong>     : A package represents an SSIS
Container within the integration layer. Each row in the Dim_Packages
table will represent a separate package file generated by the BIML
interpreter.</p>
<p><strong>Columns</strong>         :</p>
<pre><code>Package_Idx            : The Primary Key
Package_Code           : A short-hand representation of your Package. Must be unique across the table.
Package_Name           : A human-readable representation of the Package.
Package_Type_Idx       : Foreign Key from BIML.Dim_Package_Type
Pre_Package_SQL_Text   : A SQL Command That runs as the first step when the package is executed. If these options are not required; Default them to "SELECT 1"
Post_Package_SQL_Text  : A SQL Command That runs as the final step when the package is executed. If these options are not required; Default them to "SELECT 1"
Pre_Load_SQL_Text      : A Sql Command That runs directly before the Load Step of the SSIS Package. If these options are not required; Default them to "SELECT 1"
Post_Load_SQL_Text     : A Sql Command That runs directly after the Load Step of the SSIS Package. If these options are not required; Default them to "SELECT 1"
Failure_Mode_SQL_Text  : When the package fails to completes successfully, this SQL Command will be run. If these options are not required; Default them to "SELECT 1"
Success_Mode_SQL_Text  : When the package completes successfully, this SQL Command will be run. If these options are not required; Default them to "SELECT 1"
</code></pre>
</div>