---
layout: post
title:  "Jekyll and hide (run away)"
author: "Craig
---

## Table of Contents
{:.no_toc}

1. Automatic Table of Contents Here
{:toc}

## What is jekyll

Jekyll is a static site generator, take a look at [jekyllrb](https://jekyllrb.com/) for more info.

## What do we do with it?

### Release notes
We use it to auto generate commit documentation for our product releases, currently we take these from the App GIT repos on visual studio online only, this will be expanded to also include DB checkin comments in the near future.

### Internal documentation
Everyone in the Product Team has access to edit/add content to jekyll.
Its all run from the Document (GIT) project, which you can either edit online directly or open locally in an editor.

#### Guidelines
These are as they are named, guidelines of how to do 'stuff' within the exceedra product platform, infrastructure, setup etc.
Basically if we do anything somewhere in our process that is important/business critical, it needs to be documented.

#### Articles
Are generally used to create content specifically for delivery/developers to highlight how something works within the platform.

```markdown

So a guideline is "how to do something" whereas a post is "how something works".

It is a slight difference, but an important one.

```

#### Release Notes
Are generated directly from code commits and should not be edited by a human, unless the content is broken.

## How do we create content.
All content is created in markdown and a handy how to guide can be found [here](/guidelines/howto-posts/) and [here](/articles/2017-01-30-YYYY-MM-DD-help-me)

## Who does what?
Everyone in the product team can edit/change/add content, ideally we should all be curators of all of the content. Its where the company will come to (or be pointed at) to find answers to their questions.
If the answers are wrong/out of date or missing that 's a #fail on our part.

### How does the publishing work?
Every time a change is made to any of the docs in the Documentation repo, TeamCity will fire a build off that takes the markdown files and copies them to the Product server. The build also fires a jekyll build which converts the markdown files to html in the correct folders.
The site never goes offline as its a static set of files, they just magically appear.

#### Access
The only people who will be able to see the content will be exceedra staff who have a valid Office365 account

## Footnotes
